README.md, before:

# UK Travel History Parser

A professional Next.js web application for parsing UK Home Office travel history PDFs and calculating days spent outside the UK. Built with TanStack React Table, MobX state management, and shadcn/ui.

## Features

- **PDF Import**: Upload Home Office SAR documents to auto-populate travel history
- **Editable Table**: Click any cell to edit dates and routes inline
- **Add/Delete Trips**: Manually add trips or remove incorrect entries
- **Live Calculations**: Full days outside UK calculated automatically
- **Excel Export**: Download formatted spreadsheet with all data
- **Mobile-First**: Responsive design with card view on mobile, table on desktop
- **Professional UI**: Clean, minimalist design using shadcn/ui components

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **State Management**: MobX
- **Table**: TanStack React Table v8
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui + Radix UI
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **PDF Parsing**: pdf-parse
- **Excel Generation**: ExcelJS

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm, yarn, or pnpm

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/uk-travel-parser.git
cd uk-travel-parser

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

## Deploy to Vercel

### Option 1: One-Click Deploy

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/uk-travel-parser)

### Option 2: Vercel CLI

```bash
npm i -g vercel
vercel --prod
```

## Project Structure

```
uk-travel-parser/
├── app/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── parse/route.ts      # PDF parsing endpoint
│   │   └── export/route.ts     # Excel export endpoint
│   ├── globals.css
│   ├── layout.tsx
│   └── page.tsx                # Main page
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                     # shadcn/ui components
│   └── TravelTable.tsx         # Main table component
├── stores/
│   └── travelStore.ts          # MobX store
├── lib/
│   ├── parser.ts               # PDF parsing logic
│   └── utils.ts                # Utility functions
└── package.json
```

## Usage

1. **Import from PDF**: Click "Import PDF" to upload a Home Office travel history document
2. **Manual Entry**: Click "Add Trip" to add entries manually
3. **Edit**: Click any cell in the table to edit the value
4. **Delete**: Click the trash icon to remove a trip
5. **Export**: Click "Export Excel" to download the data

## Calculation Method

**Full Days = (Return Date − Departure Date) − 1**

This excludes both the departure day and return day, counting only complete days spent abroad—the standard method for UK residency calculations.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

update UI to include visa/entry dates

README.md, after:

# UK Travel History Parser

A professional Next.js web application for parsing UK Home Office travel history PDFs and calculating days spent outside the UK. Track travel history, vignette entry dates, and visa start dates in one place. Built with TanStack React Table, MobX state management, and shadcn/ui.

## Features

- **PDF Import**: Upload Home Office SAR documents to auto-populate travel history
- **Vignette & Visa Tracking**: Track vignette entry dates and visa start dates alongside travel history
- **Editable Table**: Click any cell to edit dates and routes inline
- **Add/Delete Trips**: Manually add trips or remove incorrect entries
- **Live Calculations**: Full days outside UK calculated automatically
- **Excel Export**: Download formatted spreadsheet with all data including vignette/visa dates
- **Mobile-First**: Responsive design with card view on mobile, table on desktop
- **Professional UI**: Clean, minimalist design using shadcn/ui components

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **State Management**: MobX
- **Table**: TanStack React Table v8
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui + Radix UI
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **PDF Parsing**: pdf-parse
- **Excel Generation**: ExcelJS

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm, yarn, or pnpm

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/uk-travel-parser.git
cd uk-travel-parser

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

## Deploy to Vercel

### Option 1: One-Click Deploy

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/uk-travel-parser)

### Option 2: Vercel CLI

```bash
npm i -g vercel
vercel --prod
```

## Project Structure

```
uk-travel-parser/
├── app/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── parse/route.ts      # PDF parsing endpoint
│   │   └── export/route.ts     # Excel export endpoint
│   ├── globals.css
│   ├── layout.tsx
│   └── page.tsx                # Main page
├── components/
│   ├── ui/                     # shadcn/ui components
│   └── TravelTable.tsx         # Main table component
├── stores/
│   └── travelStore.ts          # MobX store
├── lib/
│   ├── parser.ts               # PDF parsing logic
│   └── utils.ts                # Utility functions
└── package.json
```

## Usage

1. **Import from PDF**: Click "Import PDF" to upload a Home Office travel history document
2. **Manual Entry**: Click "Add Trip" to add entries manually
3. **Track Important Dates**: Record vignette entry dates and visa start dates alongside travel history
4. **Edit**: Click any cell in the table to edit the value
5. **Delete**: Click the trash icon to remove a trip
6. **Export**: Click "Export Excel" to download all data including travel history and visa/vignette information

## Calculation Method

**Full Days = (Return Date − Departure Date) − 1**

This excludes both the departure day and return day, counting only complete days spent abroad—the standard method for UK residency calculations.

## License

MIT
